Looking at a greyscale image I see bright points,
dark points and all the gray in between.
Rapid changes in brightness are where we find the edges.
Our image is just a mathematical function of x and y so
we can perform mathematical operations on it just like any other function.
For example, we can take its derivative
which is just a measure of change of this function.
A small derivative means small change,
big derivative, big change.
Images are two dimensional,
so it makes sense to take the derivative with respect to x and y simultaneously.
This is called the gradient and in computing it,
we're measuring how fast pixel values are changing at each point
in an image and in which direction they're changing most rapidly.
Computing the gradient gives us thick edges.
With the Canny algorithm,
we will thin out these edges to find
just the individual pixels that follow the strongest gradients.
We'll then extend those strong edges to include pixels all the way down
to a lower threshold that we defined when calling the Canny function.